Here at Safe Hub Collective, we’re dedicated to making public spaces safer for everyone. We believe that threats of harassment, abuse, or violence are unacceptable for ANYONE in a public space and that people marginalized based on race, gender, sexuality, ability, or class face disproportionately bear the brunt of these risks. However, many discussions about public spaces focus on physical spaces like streets and public transportation. The world is increasingly digital: we socialize online, access crucial services online, and carry our most important data and information with us on our computers and phones. These digital spaces are designed to feel private, but often expose its users to new avenues of electronic harassment and/or violence that can have significant impact on users’ lives mentally, physically, or economically.

Digital spaces are unique in that you often have to rely on companies and developers to protect your well-being and data as you go about your digital life. These companies and developers frequently ignore or underestimate the digital threats to these spaces and their users: hacking, trolling, stalking, abuse, theft. There is little in the way of accountability for the companies and developers while users are left with little to no support for the violence they’ve encountered, often being blamed for actions of the malicious attacker.

We stand AGAINST digital victim blaming. It is not a users’ fault if they are subjected to abuse or violence in a digital space: the fault rests entirely with the malicious attacker and the companies and developers that often knowingly enable this behavior. The security and well-being of users, especially of users with intersecting marginalized identities, must always be of the highest priority.

You have a right to exist safely in digital spaces. Although we have to rely on outside parties for technology to access these spaces, there are -tons- of helpful tools and strategies that allow YOU to take control of your digital life and mitigate the risk of malicious threats. We’ll walk through common areas of digital life such as web browsing, private data, and smartphones and show you different ways that you can implement as much or little security as you’re comfortable with. You have the power to set boundaries and protections in your digital spaces as you see fit: we hope that this guide will help you to make informed, personal decisions on what is right for you.
