---
title: "Social"
bg: turquoise     #defined in _config.yml, can use html color like '#010101'
color: black  #text color
style: left
fa-icon: comments
---

<h2 class="text-white">Don't let trolls see your private thoughts and experiences.</h2>

<em>Disclaimer: This section assumes you have read or skimmed the previous and have already taken advantage of basic security practices like two-factor authentication, strong passwords, browser extensions, and phone/computer encryption. All of those points are incredibly crucial for protecting your social media and communications, but we will not reiterate them here in-depth.</em>

We socialize on the internet. We make digital friends through social media, we do our organizing through social media, and do much of our communication through social media. Since this all accomplished through elaborate networks of different tech companies (easily accessible to government surveillance), <strong>it’s near impossible to guarantee true privacy when relying on private companies for social media or talking to friends online</strong>. Developers, IT workers, marketers, and countless other people can see even your most intimate messages and media. And because most of these companies store big data indefinitely, your conversations today or yesterday can still be threatened years in the future. 

We'll first walk you through suggestions on how to leverage existing security options across social media platforms. Even better, we'll explore free, open-source alternatives to chats and emails so that when you need to, you can have <em>truly</em> private conversations that can withstand even the most determined hackers and surveillance.


<hr>
<div id="privacysettings">
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Know your <strong>Privacy Settings</strong></h3>
</p>
</div>
The first step to securing your social life is to simply get familiar with the privacy and security options that are available to you. While these options will not stop marketers, rogue developers, or government surveillance from accessing your data, they can make it much more difficult for an inexperienced troll to hack or abuse you. Because security options can differ significantly across platforms, we'll walk through a few common points that you should keep in mind whenever using a social media service.
<br>
<br>

<div class="recommend">
<h5 class="text-white">Use Two-Factor Authentication and Strong Passwords</h5>
<br>
Hacking a social media account is by far one of the easiest and most damaging threats when using social media. But this hacking is very easily avoidable! If you have set-up Two-Factor Authentication and Strong Passwords for your accounts (as detailed earlier in the guide), a malicious troll would need both extremely powerful computers AND access to your phone/computer, simultaneously. Because these technologies are so easy to implement, they are undoubtedly one of the <em>best</em> steps to take to protecting your social media.
</div>

<div class="recommend">
<h5 class="text-white">Beware Geotagging</h5>
<br>
Hacking a social media account is by far one of the easiest and most damaging threats when using social media. But this hacking is very easily avoidable! If you have set-up Two-Factor Authentication and Strong Passwords for your accounts (as detailed earlier in the guide), a malicious troll would need both extremely powerful computers AND access to your phone/computer, simultaneously. Because these technologies are so easy to implement, they are undoubtedly one of the <em>best</em> steps to take to protecting your social media.
</div>

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/about/basics
Twitter: https://support.twitter.com/groups/57-safety-security#
Instagram: http://heresthethingblog.com/2014/01/14/7-privacy-tips-instagram-newbies/
Tumblr: https://www.tumblr.com/docs/en/account_security
LinkedIn: https://help.linkedin.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/267/~/account-security-and-privacy---best-practices


<hr>
<div id="otr">
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Use super-strong encryption for your data texts with <strong>OTR</strong></h3>
</p>
</div>
It’s very common to use a messaging program like Facebook Chat or Google Hangouts to talk to friends: you can use the same service across devices fairly easily and always have access to your conversations. Unfortunately, these conversations are subjected to intense data mining for marketers and government agencies. And if anyone were to ever hack or leak your account, they could see years and years of private conversations because that data never goes away.

Luckily, there’s a great open-source, secure, and free alternative to standard corporate chat services. <strong>OTR (which stands for Off The Record) is a protocol for encrypting instant messaging so that the content of your messages can’t be seen by anyone other than you and the person you’re talking to.</strong> It can be used with a wide variety of messaging services very easily; the only catch is that you need to use these services with an OTR-enabled chat client. The Electronic Frontier Foundation has very nifty guides for how to install a safe chat across platforms:

<code>OS X: Set-up <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-otr-mac">OTR with Adium</a></code><br> 
<code>Windows: Set-up <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-otr-windows">OTR with Pidgin</a></code><br>
<code>iOS and Android: Set-up <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-install-and-use-chatsecure">OTR with Chatsecure</a></code>

<strong>Warning</strong>: One of the shortcomings about OTR is that it only works well for one account on one device. If you try to encrypt your conversation with someone on your phone and computer for the same chat account, it’ll frequently get all fucked up. It’s because each account has a “fingerprint” that is used to identify you: changing devices changes the fingerprint, so your friend’s chat client can’t be as sure that you are the same person across both devices. For convenience’s sake, it’s often easier to have a different OTR-enabled account on each device for messaging.

<hr>
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Reject corporate control of your conversations with <strong>XMPP</strong></h3>
</p>
So, you have a super secure chat client. How will you chat then? With so many different messaging providers (AIM, MSN, Hangouts, etc.) it can be hard to decide. Luckily, there’s a great open-source, decentralized service called <strong>XMPP</strong> that works great for privacy-minded people. Essentially, think of it like email for instant messaging. Much how you create an email address through a site like Google or Yahoo, you can create an XMPP account through an XMPP service. And just how an email address from one site can email an other, so can an XMPP account from one service message someone from another service. Unlike email, however, your messages don’t have to live forever: once they’re sent, they disappear (unless you or your XMPP server is logging them, which hopefully isn’t happening). And best of all, <strong>XMPP is well-integrated with OTR, so you can encrypt all of your conversations seamlessly.</strong>

To get started, you just need to register an account at an XMPP server. Personal information should not be necessary: all you have to give is a username and password. Unfortunately, you have to trust that the XMPP server won’t track you. Even though OTR will make all of the contents of your messages secure, a server (and anyone watching) will still know your IP address and your friend’s IP address. <strong>So don’t expect to be purely anonymous when you use OTR: you’re just private.</strong>

<code>You can register at any of the public, secure XMPP servers found on <a href="https://xmpp.net/directory.php">xmpp.net</a></code>

<em>LET’S BE REAL FOR A SEC</em><br>
In a perfect world, all your friends would use XMPP and we’d be all secure and happy. But realistically, you probably won’t know anyone using it, and most will still feel more comfortable using Facebook or Google or whatever. It tends to be easier to use XMPP with close friends when you talk about more personal stuff. The sensitive nature of these conversations tend to make people more willing to give XMPP a shot: you can talk casually through the normal Facebooks or whatever, but if a conversation needs to be private, you can both just jump on your chat client and go OTR via XMPP.

<hr>
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Protect your email conversations with <strong>PGP</strong></h3>
</p>
The defacto standard for secure communications is PGP encryption, which you might remember from the <a href="#data">Data section</a> (you might want to go back and read about how encryption works since we won’t repeat it here). Email, like most things, is ruthlessly mined by the email services (that’s why they’re free, after all). <strong>PGP, which standards for Pretty Good Privacy, allows you to encrypt emails (and pretty much anything else) with a super high level of sophistication</strong>. This is preferable to instant messaging because:
<br>
<ol>
	<li>The recipient needs to use a password to unencrypt anything you send them, so it’s significantly harder for a thief or hacker to get access to your email</li>
	<li>You can digitally “sign” your email, better proving that you were the one who wrote the email.</li>
	<li>You can often find people’s public keys (the thing you need to encrypt a message for them) online, allowing you to encrypt things for friends, colleagues, and professionals very easily.</li>
</ol>

These guides, although fairly involved, offer great instruction in how to set-up PGP with your email. Any email address can be used with PGP encryption! 

<code>The Electronic Frontier Foundation offers in-depth guides for installing PGP on <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-pgp-mac-os-x">OS X</a> as well as <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-pgp-windows-pc">Windows</a></code>