---
title: "Phones"
bg: orange
color: black
style: left
fa-icon: phone
---

<h2 class="text-white">Phones will never be secure but you might as well try.</h2>

Protecting your laptop or desktop is great, but what about threats to your privacy & security when you’re on your phone? Smartphones are uniquely desirable targets for malicious threats because they carry so much concentrated personal information about you. The GPS in your phone can track your physical location throughout the day. Much of your communications with friends, often with sensitive information or pictures, are stored in accessible texts. Often times your emails, pictures, videos, files, and all sorts of other important data are stored amongst your apps.

<strong>While smartphones are huge asset for functionality and convenience, the tradeoff is less control over your digital space.</strong> You have to trust your Apps to use your data safely. You have to trust your operating system to withstand hacking. You have to trust your provider to not interfere with your data or calls. You have to hope nobody malicious takes control of your phone. Before we delve any further, it's really important we emphasize that phone security is far less developed than regular computer security, often with much less visibility into how data is managed and used, with much fewer options for security. <strong>Although there are many great tools for phone security, they're not comprehensive and will not stop data-mining, physical tracking, or monitoring.</strong>

So with so much personal information at risk, how can you use your smartphone without taking steps to protect your digital autonomy? <strong>Encrypt! Encrypt! Encrypt!</strong> As you secure your digital space, it’s important to recognize that apps do not only have to be a threat to your security: they can also be an asset. Some of the most sensitive data on your phone, from your pictures to your texts to your internet browsing can be secured to decent degree. And the most common thread should be a familiar one: Encryption!

<strong>By encrypting your phone and the data found on it, you can have greater assurance that if something were to happen to phone (whether it be stolen or hacked), you’d still have protections in place.<strong> We’re going to walk through a few recommendations for ways you can encrypt your files, your texts, and even your phone calls.

<hr>
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Protect your data: <strong>Phone Encryption on iOS and Android</strong></h3>
</p>
Just as you can encrypt your computer so no-one can dig around on your hard-drive without a password, you can encrypt your phone. This is especially important because if you were ever to have your phone stolen or confiscated; you definitely wouldn’t want someone to have free reign over all the pictures, videos, texts, and contacts on your phone. iOS and Android have different ways to accomplish hardware encryption, so feel free to read whichever is appropriate for you (note that iOS8 enables encryption by default, though older versions do not). We’ve linked to some nifty guides that can explain the process better than we can :)

<code>Encryption on <a href="http://support.apple.com/en-us/HT202064">iOS</a></code><br>
<code>Encryption on <a href="http://www.greenbot.com/article/2145380/why-and-how-to-encrypt-your-android-device.html">Android</a></code>

<hr>
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Protect your texts</h3>
</p>
Texts (your regular cell phone texts across the cell network) can be some of the most personal and private communications we have. They’re also especially vulnerable to being seen by others: your cell network can see them as they’re being sent (as can any government agency who’s chummy with that network). Anyone with access to your phone could read them too (hopefully you encrypted your phone to avoid this!). Nowadays, many people text through data messages, rather than old-fashioned SMS ones: each has its own risks and opportunities for digital security.

Android and iOS are in very different places, security-wise, when it comes to securing SMS texts. The Messages on iOS8 now uses end-to-end encryption, meaning your SMS texts are encrypted as they are sent to your recipient, but there's nothing stopping Apple from being able to decrypt those texts (since they provide the keys to unlock them). Android users are a bit better off: they can use the fantastic program TextSecure for encrypting SMS texts when they're sent and when they're stored on your phone. The developers of TextSecure should be bringing this service to iOS soon, but in the meantime, Messages will meet most people's needs on iOS.

<div class="recommend">
<h5 class="text-white"><strong>TextSecure on Android</strong></h5>
<br>
TextSecure is a free, open-source app for Android for encrypted texting. You can only send encrypted messages to other TextSecure users: if your friend is not using TextSecure, your text to them will not be encrypted. However, all of your texts, regardless of whether they were encrypted for the recipient, will be encrypted locally on your phone. So if someone ever got control of your phone, they would still need to decrypt TextSecure to see your stored messages.<br>
<br>
TextSecure can be installed from the Play Store.
</div>

In many ways, data messaging is much more prevalent than old-fashioned SMS texting. There are many great options for securing these conversations; we cover these apps in the following Chats section in greater detail.
<hr>
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Protect your calls</h3>
</p>
Wiretapping is practically an American tradition. If there are ever times where you would not feel comfortable or safe having a phone call monitored, you should consider using a phone app whose specialty is encrypting your calls. Most apps accomplish this by sending your conversation over your data connection rather than your cellular network connection, thus allowing the 1s and 0s to be encrypted before reaching your conversation partner.

<div class="recommend">
<h5 class="text-white"><strong>Encrypted Call Apps</strong></h5>
<br>
On iOS, we recommend using <strong>Signal</strong>, which is available in the iTunes app store. On Android, we recommend using <strong>Redphone</strong>, available in the Play store. Both are free, open-source encrypted call apps developed by the fantastic <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Whisper_Systems">Open Whisper Systems</a>. Make sure to note that encrypted phone calls only work when the person you're calling also uses these apps. Also, be aware that calls can be a bit harder to hear when they're encrypted.<br>
<br>
A guide to using Signal on iOS can be found <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-signal-%E2%80%93-private-messenger">here</a><br>
A guide to using Redphone on Android can be found <a href="https://ssd.eff.org/en/module/how-use-redphone-android">here</a><br>
</div>

<hr>
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Protect your smartphone browsing</h3>
</p>
Unfortunately, the nature of smartphone browsers is such that you don’t have as many security plug-in options like you do on a computer. On Android you can download the mobile Firefox browser and use all of our suggested plug-ins, but otherwise the browsers on iOS and Android do not offer this level of control :(

If you’re an android user, you can install an app called <strong>Orbot</strong> that can push your phone’s internet traffic through to Tor network, giving you fantastic anonymity. You can configure certain apps, like twitter, to use the Tor network, or can just force all your traffic through Tor! You can also install a web browser called <strong>Orweb</strong> to browse the internet anonymously like you were using the Tor Browser. Unfortunately these apps are only available on Android, through the Play Store.<br>
<code>Follow this <a href="https://guardianproject.info/howto/browsefreely/">useful guide</a> for setting-up Orbot on Android.</code>

Earlier in the guide, we talked about securing your web browsing with a VPN. Fortunately, you can use a VPN on your phone as well! If you already have a VPN provider, it’s relatively easy to set-up on your phone. Follow Apple’s instructions for iOS or check out OpenVPN (our recommended VPN client for Android).<br>
<code>Follow <a href="http://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201550">these instructions</a> for configuring your VPN on iOS.</code><br>
<code>Follow <a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.openvpn.openvpn&hl=en">these instructions</a> for configuring your VPN on Android.</code>
<hr>
<p>
	<h3 class="text-white">Final Thoughts on Cell Phone Security</h3>
</p>
You’ve thoroughly vetted all your apps. You encrypt your phone, your texts, and even some of your phone calls. Your phone is a fortress! Or is it?

<strong>The most crucial thing to remember is that no phone is 100% secure.</strong> From hackers to government agencies, there are very determined people out there who know more about our vulnerabilities than we do. Your most trusted app developer could have their servers compromised. The FBI could use a specially designed program to hack your encrypted phone or track you at a protest (this happens!). Any number of things could go wrong, and rarely would you have the power to do anything about it. But that is NOT YOUR FAULT. Malicious attacks are the fault of the attackers. Invasive apps are the fault of manipulative developers. You have a right to electronic safety: If it is willfully compromised by someone else, it is an encroachment on your digital autonomy.

And lastly, if you are ever in a situation where personal safety is absolutely necessary, such as attending an event with significant police presence or avoiding an abusive/predatory person, consider leaving your phone at home until you feel safe, or use a disposable phone. Turning your phone off for a bit, and then back on, actually triggers some government surveillance programs, so don’t try it if you’re going to a demonstration or something. Consider buying a burner phone just if you can afford it. These approaches aren’t always possible though; this guide cannot tell you what is right for you. But your digital space is yours to manage: whatever action you decide is the right one.